README.md, before:

# 🌱 EcoTrack - Smart Waste Management System

A modern, intelligent waste reporting and recycling coordination system built with React, TypeScript, and Tailwind CSS. EcoTrack helps cities and communities manage waste more efficiently through citizen reporting and automated pickup scheduling.

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- **Node.js** (v16 or higher)
- **npm** (v8 or higher)
- **Git**

### Installation & Setup

1. **Clone the repository**
   ```bash
   git clone (https://github.com/Uma-Aditya/EcoTrack-Responsibility-in-Every-Report-Change-in-Every-Action)
   
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. **Start the development server**
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

4. **Open your browser**
   ```
   Navigate to: http://localhost:5173
   ```

### Available Scripts

```bash
# Start development server
npm run dev

# Build for production
npm run build

# Preview production build
npm run preview

# Run linting
npm run lint

# Type checking
npm run typecheck
```

## ✨ Key Features

### 🏠 **Citizen Portal**
- **📱 Quick Issue Reporting**: Snap photos and report overflowing bins in seconds
- **📅 Smart Scheduling**: Schedule waste pickups with flexible date/time selection
- **📍 Location Tracking**: Precise GPS-based location reporting
- **📊 Status Tracking**: Real-time updates on report resolution progress

### 👨‍💼 **Admin Dashboard**
- **📈 Real-time Analytics**: Comprehensive statistics and performance metrics
- **📋 Task Management**: Efficient handling of reports and pickup requests
- **🔄 Status Updates**: Quick status changes with visual indicators
- **📱 Mobile Responsive**: Full functionality on all devices

### 🎨 **Modern UI/UX**
- **🌈 Beautiful Design**: Modern gradient backgrounds and glassmorphism effects
- **⚡ Smooth Animations**: Engaging transitions and hover effects
- **📱 Mobile-First**: Responsive design optimized for all screen sizes
- **♿ Accessible**: WCAG compliant with proper contrast and focus states

### 🔧 **Technical Features**
- **⚛️ React 18**: Latest React with hooks and modern patterns
- **📘 TypeScript**: Full type safety and better developer experience
- **🎨 Tailwind CSS**: Utility-first CSS with custom design system
- **🗄️ Supabase Integration**: Real-time database and authentication
- **🔒 Secure Authentication**: JWT-based admin authentication system

## 🏗️ Architecture

### Frontend Stack
- **React 18** - UI framework
- **TypeScript** - Type safety
- **Tailwind CSS** - Styling
- **Lucide React** - Icons
- **Vite** - Build tool

### Backend Integration
- **Supabase** - Database and authentication
- **PostgreSQL** - Data storage
- **Real-time subscriptions** - Live updates

### Project Structure
```
src/
├── components/          # Reusable UI components
│   ├── Navbar.tsx      # Navigation component
│   ├── Footer.tsx      # Footer component
│   └── Toast.tsx       # Notification system
├── contexts/           # React contexts
│   └── AuthContext.tsx # Authentication state
├── lib/               # Utilities and configurations
│   └── supabase.ts    # Supabase client setup
├── pages/             # Page components
│   ├── HomePage.tsx   # Landing page
│   ├── ReportPage.tsx # Issue reporting
│   ├── SchedulePage.tsx # Pickup scheduling
│   ├── AdminLoginPage.tsx # Admin authentication
│   └── AdminDashboardPage.tsx # Admin panel
└── App.tsx            # Main application component
```

## 🎯 Core Functionality

### 1. **Issue Reporting System**
- Citizens can report overflowing bins or waste issues
- Photo upload capability for visual evidence
- Automatic location detection
- Real-time status updates

### 2. **Pickup Scheduling**
- Flexible date and time selection
- Multiple waste type support
- Customer information management
- Automated confirmation system

### 3. **Admin Management**
- Comprehensive dashboard with statistics
- Bulk operations for efficiency
- Real-time data updates
- Performance analytics

### 4. **Notification System**
- Toast notifications for user feedback
- Multiple notification types (success, error, warning, info)
- Auto-dismiss with progress indicators
- Smooth animations

## 🎨 Design System

### Color Palette
- **Primary**: Green tones (#22c55e to #14532d)
- **Secondary**: Slate tones (#f8fafc to #0f172a)
- **Accent**: Status colors (yellow, blue, red, green)

### Typography
- **Headings**: Bold, gradient text effects
- **Body**: Clean, readable secondary colors
- **Interactive**: Hover states with color transitions

### Components
- **Cards**: Rounded corners with soft shadows
- **Buttons**: Gradient backgrounds with hover effects
- **Forms**: Clean inputs with focus states
- **Tables**: Responsive with hover effects

## 🔧 Configuration

### Environment Variables
Create a `.env.local` file in the project root:

```env
VITE_SUPABASE_URL=your_supabase_url
VITE_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY=your_supabase_anon_key
```

### Tailwind Configuration
Custom configuration includes:
- Extended color palette
- Custom animations
- Shadow utilities
- Backdrop blur effects

## 📱 Responsive Design

The application is fully responsive with breakpoints:
- **Mobile**: < 768px
- **Tablet**: 768px - 1024px
- **Desktop**: > 1024px

## 🚀 Deployment

### Build for Production
```bash
npm run build
```

### Deploy to Vercel
```bash
npm install -g vercel
vercel --prod
```

### Deploy to Netlify
```bash
npm run build
# Upload dist/ folder to Netlify
```

## 🤝 Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add amazing feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
5. Open a Pull Request


## 🆘 Support

For support and questions:
- **Email**: mohanaditya706@gmail.com
- **Documentation**: [Project Wiki](link-to-wiki)
- **Issues**: [GitHub Issues](link-to-issues)

## 🎉 Acknowledgments


- Icons by [Lucide](https://lucide.dev/)
- Styling with [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/)
- Database by [Supabase](https://supabase.com/)

---

**EcoTrack** - Making waste management smarter, one report at a time.

Commit message:

Add problem statement to README
Added a problem statement to highlight the challenges in waste management.

README.md, after:

### Problem Statement

Waste management remains one of the most pressing challenges for cities and communities worldwide. Traditional waste collection methods often suffer from inefficiencies, lack of real-time tracking, and limited citizen engagement. This results in delayed responses to overflowing bins, missed pickups, and unsustainable waste management practices.Furthermore, municipalities face challenges in optimizing waste collection routes and schedules, leading to unnecessary fuel consumption and increased carbon footprints. There is also limited transparency for citizens, making it hard for them to track the status of their reported issues or the scheduling of waste pickups.

# 🌱 EcoTrack - Smart Waste Management System

A modern, intelligent waste reporting and recycling coordination system built with React, TypeScript, and Tailwind CSS. EcoTrack helps cities and communities manage waste more efficiently through citizen reporting and automated pickup scheduling.

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- **Node.js** (v16 or higher)
- **npm** (v8 or higher)
- **Git**

### Installation & Setup

1. **Clone the repository**
   ```bash
   git clone (https://github.com/Uma-Aditya/EcoTrack-Responsibility-in-Every-Report-Change-in-Every-Action)
   
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. **Start the development server**
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

4. **Open your browser**
   ```
   Navigate to: http://localhost:5173
   ```

### Available Scripts

```bash
# Start development server
npm run dev

# Build for production
npm run build

# Preview production build
npm run preview

# Run linting
npm run lint

# Type checking
npm run typecheck
```

## ✨ Key Features

### 🏠 **Citizen Portal**
- **📱 Quick Issue Reporting**: Snap photos and report overflowing bins in seconds
- **📅 Smart Scheduling**: Schedule waste pickups with flexible date/time selection
- **📍 Location Tracking**: Precise GPS-based location reporting
- **📊 Status Tracking**: Real-time updates on report resolution progress

### 👨‍💼 **Admin Dashboard**
- **📈 Real-time Analytics**: Comprehensive statistics and performance metrics
- **📋 Task Management**: Efficient handling of reports and pickup requests
- **🔄 Status Updates**: Quick status changes with visual indicators
- **📱 Mobile Responsive**: Full functionality on all devices

### 🎨 **Modern UI/UX**
- **🌈 Beautiful Design**: Modern gradient backgrounds and glassmorphism effects
- **⚡ Smooth Animations**: Engaging transitions and hover effects
- **📱 Mobile-First**: Responsive design optimized for all screen sizes
- **♿ Accessible**: WCAG compliant with proper contrast and focus states

### 🔧 **Technical Features**
- **⚛️ React 18**: Latest React with hooks and modern patterns
- **📘 TypeScript**: Full type safety and better developer experience
- **🎨 Tailwind CSS**: Utility-first CSS with custom design system
- **🗄️ Supabase Integration**: Real-time database and authentication
- **🔒 Secure Authentication**: JWT-based admin authentication system

## 🏗️ Architecture

### Frontend Stack
- **React 18** - UI framework
- **TypeScript** - Type safety
- **Tailwind CSS** - Styling
- **Lucide React** - Icons
- **Vite** - Build tool

### Backend Integration
- **Supabase** - Database and authentication
- **PostgreSQL** - Data storage
- **Real-time subscriptions** - Live updates

### Project Structure
```
src/
├── components/          # Reusable UI components
│   ├── Navbar.tsx      # Navigation component
│   ├── Footer.tsx      # Footer component
│   └── Toast.tsx       # Notification system
├── contexts/           # React contexts
│   └── AuthContext.tsx # Authentication state
├── lib/               # Utilities and configurations
│   └── supabase.ts    # Supabase client setup
├── pages/             # Page components
│   ├── HomePage.tsx   # Landing page
│   ├── ReportPage.tsx # Issue reporting
│   ├── SchedulePage.tsx # Pickup scheduling
│   ├── AdminLoginPage.tsx # Admin authentication
│   └── AdminDashboardPage.tsx # Admin panel
└── App.tsx            # Main application component
```

## 🎯 Core Functionality

### 1. **Issue Reporting System**
- Citizens can report overflowing bins or waste issues
- Photo upload capability for visual evidence
- Automatic location detection
- Real-time status updates

### 2. **Pickup Scheduling**
- Flexible date and time selection
- Multiple waste type support
- Customer information management
- Automated confirmation system

### 3. **Admin Management**
- Comprehensive dashboard with statistics
- Bulk operations for efficiency
- Real-time data updates
- Performance analytics

### 4. **Notification System**
- Toast notifications for user feedback
- Multiple notification types (success, error, warning, info)
- Auto-dismiss with progress indicators
- Smooth animations

## 🎨 Design System

### Color Palette
- **Primary**: Green tones (#22c55e to #14532d)
- **Secondary**: Slate tones (#f8fafc to #0f172a)
- **Accent**: Status colors (yellow, blue, red, green)

### Typography
- **Headings**: Bold, gradient text effects
- **Body**: Clean, readable secondary colors
- **Interactive**: Hover states with color transitions

### Components
- **Cards**: Rounded corners with soft shadows
- **Buttons**: Gradient backgrounds with hover effects
- **Forms**: Clean inputs with focus states
- **Tables**: Responsive with hover effects

## 🔧 Configuration

### Environment Variables
Create a `.env.local` file in the project root:

```env
VITE_SUPABASE_URL=your_supabase_url
VITE_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY=your_supabase_anon_key
```

### Tailwind Configuration
Custom configuration includes:
- Extended color palette
- Custom animations
- Shadow utilities
- Backdrop blur effects

## 📱 Responsive Design

The application is fully responsive with breakpoints:
- **Mobile**: < 768px
- **Tablet**: 768px - 1024px
- **Desktop**: > 1024px

## 🚀 Deployment

### Build for Production
```bash
npm run build
```

### Deploy to Vercel
```bash
npm install -g vercel
vercel --prod
```

### Deploy to Netlify
```bash
npm run build
# Upload dist/ folder to Netlify
```

## 🤝 Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add amazing feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
5. Open a Pull Request


## 🆘 Support

For support and questions:
- **Email**: mohanaditya706@gmail.com
- **Documentation**: [Project Wiki](link-to-wiki)
- **Issues**: [GitHub Issues](link-to-issues)

## 🎉 Acknowledgments


- Icons by [Lucide](https://lucide.dev/)
- Styling with [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/)
- Database by [Supabase](https://supabase.com/)

---

**EcoTrack** - Making waste management smarter, one report at a time.
